many more families are going to lose
loved ones before their time it might be
two weeks time it might be four months
time it might be twelve months time who
knows how on earth did it come to this
the corona virus pandemic started in
China spread to Europe and had reached
the UK by the end of January first off
the government's strategy was to try to
contain the virus it set up quarantine
centers for people coming back from
mainland China it traced the contacts of
infected people and advised all of us to
wash our hands on the 6th of February
another case of corona virus was
identified and by the end of February
the total number of confirmed cases in
the UK had reached 23 and the virus had
begun to spread within the country it
was a bit unusual to see that hey Zamir
could be sort of the first place that
it's been transmitted without the
obvious course contain delay research
mitigator wash your hands with soap and
hot water for the length of time it
takes to sing happy birthday twice
whatever extra resources our NHS needs
to cope with coronavirus it will get
many more families are going to lose
loved ones before their time we need
people to start working from home where
they possibly can
and you should avoid pubs clubs theaters
and other such social venues just six
days after the Chancellor pledged 12
billion pounds to fund the coronavirus
response he was back this time with 350
billion pounds this national effort will
be underpinned by government
interventions in the economy on a scale
unimaginable only a few weeks ago if we
can get this down to numbers 20,000 and
below that's a good outcome this was
really the first time that a government
figure had publicly come out and put a
number on what the UK could expect and
while every single death is an
individual tragedy in all the pain that
causes that's why this particular
kela number of 20,000 has become such a
marker and it was the first indication
really of what was to come we are
collectively telly telly cafes pubs bars
and restaurants to close it might be two
weeks time it might be four months time
it might be twelve months time who knows
nobody knows we're paying people's wages
up to eighty percent so someone can be
furloughed rather than laid off to
protect their jobs this is when we need
the the governments the most I urge you
at this moment of national emergency to
stay at home protect our NHS and save
lives I've developed mild symptoms of
the corona virus I am now setting the
goal of 100 thousand tests per day by
the end of this month the 100000 number
itself wasn't picked by scientists it
was a political target set by the Health
Secretary to try to kickstart a big
expansion in testing and that became
important later
he remains stable overnight he's
receiving standard oxygen treatment and
breathing without any assistance of
those who've contracted the virus
ten thousand six hundred and twelve have
tragically died it's unbelievable that
people be so kind
twenty thousand three hundred and
nineteen have died the number of deaths
in hospitals were being recorded but
there were serious concerns about what
was happening in care homes political
pressure increased to try and record how
many people were dying there too we have
recorded an additional three thousand
eight hundred and eleven deaths in total
I can confirm today that for the first
time we are past the peak of this
disease I can announce that we have met
our goal the number of tests yesterday
on the last day of April was a hundred
and twenty two thousand three hundred
and forty seven there is some
controversy about those figures though
and that's because forty thousand of
those tests were home testing kits that
were sent out but hadn't yet been
completed and returned and the number of
tests did fall in the following days but
it did unquestionably mark a big
expansion in the UK's ability to test
and pretty much everyone agrees that
that is going to be crucial in moving
the country out of lockdown measures by
the 6th of May more than 30,000 people
had died with corona virus in the UK and
while we're past the peak that number is
still going up that's now the highest
number in Europe it's the second highest
in the world that's not success or a
parent success so can the Prime Minister
tell us how on earth did it come to this
well I can tell you
is that at every stage as we took the
decisions that we did we were governed
by one overriding principle and a and
that was to save lives and to protect
our NHS one issue that is kept coming up
is the supply of personal protective
equipment to frontline workers now the
government says it's put more than a
billion bits of kit into the system and
there is a global supply issue but
doctors nurses and care workers say
there still isn't enough PPE is going to
be vital as knocked down restrictions
ease
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News